greetings everyone and thanks for
downloading this episode of the china
history podcast i'm your host once again
Laszlo Montgomery coming to you via
China history podcast.com I'm gonna give
it away right at the beginning and say
we're not going to finish off the Ching
dynasty in the sixth installment of this
overview in fact I'm questioning now if
I can even finish them off in part 7
this one might go to AIDS anyway we'll
see next week but today we're loaded in
jam-packed with historical events of
such great impact and significance that
you could still feel the radiation today
over a hundred years after these events
happened we're going to cover events
that happened under two emperors today
first is the torture Emperor 1861 1875
he was the son of shin Fung and his
Manchu concubine yang Nara who we know
as sushi tae ho Chinese history's most
notorious Dowager Empress he's just a
boy Emperor and is gone by 1875 living
only to the age of 18 and then he's
followed by his cousin who becomes the
equine shoot Emperor 1875 to 1905 on soo
he really is the last emperor of China
there's one more after him we all know
it's pooi of the oscar-winning movie
Fame but if you recall from the movie by
the time he's named Emperor it's all
over and he hangs in there as a child
Emperor for a year and it's 1912 it's
finished and then we have the Republic
of China in any case pooey or as he is
also known the Shen Tong Emperor is
probably best known as the last emperor
more Taekwon Dee you're going to have to
wait till next week to meet him only
torture and gwang-soo in this episode
and as far as the Gwangju Emperor we're
only going to go up to about 18 95 or 96
before we start going into overtime so I
guess no come your way this week but we
do have plenty of foreign powers pushing
China around in this
so din the usual array of interesting
characters sushi prints gone prince chun
li hung-chang jang cheorung and of
course a whole cast of foreign devils
who make this whole quarter century from
1870 to 1895 one of the most
unforgettable in chinese history we left
off last time with the suppression of
all the big rebellions of the 1850s and
60s the three most heroic generals of
this period sanguine and his two
protégées Lee Hong Chung who defeated
the yen up in the North and South Hong
Kong who pacified the northwest in parts
of Chinese Central Asia these heroes
have vanquished all these military
challenges to the chain
this included the tight ping and neon
rebellions as well as major rebellions
in Yunnan Xin Jiang at the men in 1858
we have the humiliating Treaty of 10
Jean and it's this treaty that causes
everyone to put their heads together up
in Beijing to plan the next move the
idea was to usher in a period of self
strengthening or the powers that be
naively thought that if you simply
grafted Western technology and science
after traditional fundamental Chinese
values and systems China should be able
to enjoy a great leap forward to catch
up to the Western powers that was the
prevailing belief Chinese learning for
the fundamental principles Western
learning for practical application was
how zhang xue'er dongha explained it
these ideas were sincere and all and
great efforts were made to modernize but
but the reality of what china was back
then had to be taken into account all of
these great ideas and great thinkers
were mostly all located in Beijing
Shanghai kimchi nor in any number of or
in any number of treaty ports along the
coast and along the Yangtze once you've
moved away from the safety and comfort
of these coastal regions forget it you
were back in the Han Dynasty well it
wasn't that bad but my point is China
was overwhelmingly agrarian as
at the pourer interior provinces not
obey unplayed yunxi xiangxi their world
was a million miles away from the goings
on along the coast and in the treaty
port areas so to think that all this
Western technology and learning was
gonna propel China forward to the level
of the foreign powers was was just a
major pipe dream whatever gains or
baby-steps China might make in lifting
themselves out of the old world and into
the new the West would just keep moving
forward in leaps and bounds the lead
never seemed to narrow it just kept
getting wider
there were a number of reasons why the
the whole self strengthening movement
never really met with success most
China's scholars all conclude that it
was doomed from the start by the
earliest proponents like its unqualified
Li Hongzhang jangji-dong and others
within the ching government who all
viewed the matter of self strengthening
and modernization within the context of
the qing government in its conservative
Confucian systems no thought was given
to actually reforming the wheels of
government and ushering in any
substantive changes there it was
commonly thought that the qing
government would serve as a partner in
all this reform to the country's economy
and education the ching dynasty focused
all their efforts instead on self
preservation through appeasement with
foreigners and buying weapons to
suppress rebellions and whatever and
then coming down hard on whatever
discontent might flare up the foreign
powers saw the ching dynasty was totally
dependent on them for survival the
foreign nations making fortunes in China
were of the mind that keeping the status
quo was just fine with them as long as
there was no talk about making any
changes to the government the Reformers
had sushi Tycho's support but if they
ever crossed that line the empress
dowager pushed back very hard as long as
these reforms still kept the ching
dynasty in power they would get their
complete lukewarm support you see she
sort of seized power in a coup in 1861
her husband the Shan Fung Emperor he
dies in 1861 probably of a broken heart
at all the bad luck
his reign so his son who becomes the
Tolcher
Emperor he's all of five years old the
Shen Fung Emperor made some arrangements
prior to his death that basically gave
the orders for how everything was
supposed to be handled during the towing
chair Emperor's minority on the one hand
you had a Regency Council of eight
ministers put together and to act as a
counterbalance the two Empress dowager's
sushi and son were also given authority
but these two sides these these
ministers and the two Empress's they
were natural rivals and she being the
shrewd power-hungry lady that she was
she engineered the shingle chun-yin the
shijo palace coup of November 1861
basically she cleverly used her two
allies Prince Gong and Prince Duan to
help her to seize power and as the
famous story goes after the funeral of
the Emperor she rushed back to the
capital a day early ahead of the eight
other co regents and engineered this
whole coup and just as Saddam Hussein
did to his rivals in 1979 the Empress
Dowager Tzu she had them all declared
guilty of treason and they were removed
from power and executed again this was
all facilitated by Sue's she and her
partners in crime princes gong inch one
prince Gong Gong chinois he was the
Shenlong Emperor's brother his son would
have been the first choice to take over
as Emperor but he was a wastrel and not
suitable so it went to Prince Prince
twin-twin Chien Qing Wong was the
seventh son of the foul Quang Emperor
and father of the Guangxu Emperor this
meant that the Empress Dowager was his
sister-in-law
both men were major insiders and Qing
politics during this time so from that
point in November 1861 until the day she
died in November
1908 at the age of 72 the Empress
Dowager Tzu she was the de facto ruler
in China she'll sort of Flint in and out
of our story our sad story about how the
self-strengthening movement sort of
crashed and burned
but this self-strengthening movement
and ching Restoration gave the dyeing
dynasty a new lease on life after these
rebellions order was restored out in the
provinces the government bureaucracy
came back to life and men of talent came
to the floor and the traditional ways
came back and everything started to
return to normal after more than a
decade of sheer chaos westernization was
being explored and all this foreign
know-how and technology machines weapons
of mass destruction well for that time
at least these all poured into China
during the 1860s and to deal with the
foreigners a separate office was created
known as the Jolly Amun this was the
office that was charged with dealing
with anything related to foreigners it
was a famously inefficient and
slow-moving office of the government the
important thing in setting up that's
only Yaman was to keep these foreigners
away from the imperial palace and the
emperor by all means the imperial court
preferred not to get their hands dirty
dealing with the pushy Westerners who
never cared a hoots about protocol or
Chinese sensibilities well the leaders
of this King restoration and the
self-strengthening they weren't what you
might call savvy about how a modern
economy worked a lot of what was going
on with the modernization was happening
out in the provinces rather than in
Beijing itself and these Confucian
bureaucrats who ran the day-to-day
affairs of the government they dragged
their feet all day and all night when it
came to helping out and all these
commercial endeavors and there wasn't a
lot of respect and admiration the
Confucian astad for the merchant classes
and they had even less enthusiasm when
it came to matters of foreign trade or
investment this whole thing really
didn't work out the way it was hoped
from the safety and comfort of a century
and a half later we can see that the
objective of self strengthening was to
revive the past glory of the Ching
rather than building a brave new world
the whole matter of how to incorporate
all of this westernization to such a
traditional society as China just it
just couldn't be reconciled and in the
end the conservative faction at court
won out they were able to keep their
foot on the
to the extent that all these hoped for
plans were never achieved the civil
servants the literati the gentry and of
course the imperial court all viewed
these new ideas and westernization with
a great deal of suspicion and refused to
offer their true support their objective
was to preserve the Confucian traditions
that had been around since the spring
and autumn period that ended in 479 BC
the entirety of the 1860s saw a wave of
anti-foreign feelings sweet China there
were a number of reasons the
missionaries and the 101 ways they
rubbed the Chinese the wrong way the
Treaty of Nanking and Tianjin and way
the foreigners were always seeming to
get whatever they demanded the
government impotent and relying on
appeasement to live to fight another day
the finest hour during the ching
Restoration sort of lived and died with
the defeat of all the rebellions it
seemed like there might have been enough
momentum to keep it going but by the
1870s the whole movement sort of ran out
of gas the Empress dowager's she gave it
her outward support but she was also
supporting the conservative faction as
well and she you know manipulated
everything excellently to the point
where the status quo was well preserved
the 1860s saw an explosion of Commerce
and economic activity back in the early
days it was all about you know the usual
suspects tea silk chinaware opium now it
was all about the China market when you
look at the stage of development the
Western powers were at you put that
power to work inside China building all
the machines that pumped out all the
daily use Goods and Western things that
meshed perfectly with the demands of the
day in Chinese society factories sprung
up like mushrooms everywhere there was a
treaty port some were western controls
some Chinese controlled a whole lot of
Technology and marketing concepts
processing all kinds of useful things
that the West brought to China as far as
manufacturing innovations go were
studied by the local entrepreneurs when
you took all these new production mining
transportation innovations and you mixed
it with that natural Chinese
for absorbing the info and molding it
perfectly to the needs of their market I
mean it was just a great mixture and of
course whatever great ideas introduced
in Hong Kong or Shanghai or Tenjin or
Singapore or Hong Kong would spread
quickly throughout the entire network of
Chinese diaspora who had already fanned
out across Southeast Asia and now into
North America and Europe so the Western
powers were all clamoring for their
little piece of the action and post
treaty of Tianjin 1860s China they
fought against many of the restrictions
and internal transit duties or Li Ching
this was a tax put in effect during the
Taiping rebellion that served to raise
funds for all these necessary local
armies to fight the rebels central
government had no money so power was
given to the local authorities to use
this leeching system after the Taiping
rebellion had stayed in effect and this
was how local governments raised revenue
basically foreigners saw it as an
obstruction to commerce that made them
either uncompetitive or kept them out of
some sectors of the China market today
everyone's giving China constant
pressure regarding the RMB claiming it's
unfairly undervalued well well 150 years
ago foreigners were still saying the
same thing only instead of the RMB it
was the lead gene or that or the like in
taxes it was also called the foreigners
kept the pressure up to get rid of these
the gene but it stuck around till 1931
now right at this time at the 1860s just
as the Westerners are expanding into
China there's a popular anti-foreign
groundswell that starts to form once the
Treaty of Tianjin was signed it busted
China wide open to the work of the
missionaries the dynamic created in
societies where he had missionaries
setting up shop caused all kinds of
societal problems in addition to the
sincere local populace who found
attraction to Christianity they were
also plenty of pretenders who use the
missionaries and that little bit of
magic or whatever you want to call it
that always seem to give foreigners
special treatment within Chinese society
local governments found them offensive
not to mention a dangerous threat to
their power and of course the whole
Taiping rebellion with its Christian aim
this wasn't a good advertisement for
Christianity amongst the Chinese
populace so naturally there rose up also
troublemakers here and there who would
spread all these nasty rumors about all
these diabolical things foreign
missionaries were doing to innocent
Chinese law by Shing the most vile
rumors and lies would be disseminated
wherever missionaries would do their
work some things never change and this
trick of spreading rumors and societies
is alive today as it was back then
there were plenty of incidents of
violence against missionaries but one in
particular sort of rose to the fore and
became a lightning rod for all this
pent-up anti-foreign sentiment lurking
just below the surface
it happened in 10 Jean in June of 1870
and this flare-up involved the Catholic
Church there and the French who ran it
as well as of the local orphanage well
word got out amongst the hoi polloi that
these French priests and nuns were using
these Chinese kids were dropped off at
the orphanage for all kinds of ritual
sacrifices so the Tenjin government sent
someone over to check out the situation
but nothing's found the French consul
gets wind of this and blows his stack
storms into the local Yaman in Tianjin
that handled matters regarding
foreigners and he's he started doing
that that thing that foreigners do that
simply drive Chinese crazy he got
aggressive loud spoken accusatory tones
and it reached a crescendo and he pulls
out a gun at a policeman or someone at
the scene gets shot and killed so in the
passion of the moment the crowd that had
gathered they ripped his guy to pieces
and now the chain government has a
full-blown international incident on
their hands involving them the French
and all the world's Catholics in
addition to the death of this diplomat
there were also many nuns priests and
other innocent victims of the French
persuasion who are murdered by his mob
uprising this Tanjung Massacre as it has
come down to us was followed up by a
bunch of burning and looting to other
French institutions in Eng so the
government sends in son Guan to deal
with this and thankfully the French were
suddenly too preoccupied with the
franco-prussian war
so the damage wasn't too bad however the
damage done to the reputation of the
Ching Emperor in the eyes of the foreign
community were greatly diminished Sun
Quan died in 1872 and once he is gone
the most venerable sacred cow and the
government to deal with foreigners
became lee Hong Chun besides the damage
done to the overall relationship between
China and the West that came as a result
of the missionary movement there was
also the matter of the treaty negotiated
in Beijing signed by the British
minister to China
Rutherford Alcock and representatives
from it's only Amin all sides seemed
happy with this renegotiated version of
the Treaty of Tianjin but so called old
China hands the oldest and most
established British traders in the China
game they didn't think this treaty went
far enough and they used the politicians
they had in their pockets back in London
to make sure the treaty was never
ratified by Parliament both Prince Gong
and Li Hongzhang were personally
involved in these renegotiations that
were a little more reasonable for the
Chinese side so it ends up getting
rejected and Lee Hong Jang and Prince
Gummer undermined and lose face
meanwhile back in the capital the unholy
alliance between the two Empress
dowager's she and Sun and Prince gone
was getting quite strained in 1873 the
tonker Emperor reaches his majority in
the need for this Regency ends but one
thing about the tonker Emperor he was
not destined for a good end and he died
of smallpox in January 1875 at the age
of 18 this boy Emperor had lived a
notoriously promiscuous life regularly
visiting brothels and mixing with
lowlifes that he died this young was
hardly surprising
now this sudden death presented a major
dilemma this is where the Empress
Dowager makes her move and she seizes
absolute power and goes against one of
the holiest of holy traditions regarding
the matter of succession and puts her
nephew on the throne who becomes the
emperor guangxu and conveniently the
Gwangju Emperor's merely five years old
so of course is gonna need a Regency so
sushi tae ho is set for the foreseeable
future 1881 Empress dowager's son died
mysteriously in 1884
so she had Prince Gong dismissed which
leaves her the last man standing from
the original Regency put in place at the
commencement of the Tong jerk era in
1884 85 you hit the sino-french war this
war was all about kicking the French out
of China's on-again off-again ally
Vietnam where they were setting up their
own little colony the French had sort of
carved out their own little world down
there French Catholic missionaries have
been scratching around Vietnam since the
Ming Dynasty that's why Catholicism sort
of took hold down there more than
Protestantism the Wynne dynasty appealed
to the Ching Emperor who they still pay
tribute to to come on down and help them
out of this Jam with the French after
mercenaries called the black flags were
sent down in 1882 to shake things up a
little the scholar in general Chang
Chung also governor-general of Guangdong
and Guangxi leaves his forces against
the French and thanks in part to Lee
Hong Chun refusing to send
reinforcements to the south and also
thanks to the superiority of the French
Navy he goes down in defeat on August
23rd 1884 the French Navy blows the Fuko
shipyard to smithereens and 11 newest
and best warships purchased by the
Chiang Navy were destroyed so good old
Lee Hong Jong gets sent down there to
negotiate as best he could under the
circumstances that is he tried to work
something out with the French before it
came to blows but sushi the Empress
Dowager decided to declare war on France
instead so as a result of this
misadventure in 1885 the French were
granted would amounted to a free hand in
Vietnam and China couldn't do anything
about it but as we all know the French
will have their own mess on their hands
come the middle of the twentieth century
which ultimately becomes our problem but
that's not what this podcast is all
about so in 1885 we can see the seeds
planted for the Vietnam War 80 years
later and so we come to one of the
blackest most humiliating most difficult
events in modern Chinese history
this was the sino-japanese war of 1894
I was thinking of doing a show later on
to explore the roots of sino-japanese
mutual distrust and well in a lot of
cases downright hatred between the
sino-japanese war that we're about to
discuss Japanese invasions and brutal
treatment of Chinese in the 30s and 40s
world war ii and the occupation not to
mention the twenty-one demands that came
in 1915 and then leaving china
completely and totally in the dust as
far as post-world War two economic
reform and industrialization go I mean
even today in 2011 the enmity felt by
common Chinese against Japan is still
present even young people today born a
century and decades after the fact still
Harbor a burning distrust and sometimes
a downright a treat for Japan of course
this doesn't cover all Chinese but my
personal experience I haven't met a lot
of Chinese who consumed the products
aside have much good things to say about
Japan as we all know Commodore Perry
paid his historic visit to Japan in 1853
and things were never the same again
there and we all know the story how
Japan embraced modernization and Meiji
Emperor became a major proponent of all
this rapid industrialization
militarization in economic reform in
China it was just the opposite
mostly because they lacked a leader like
the Meiji Emperor who would push these
reforms through from the top down rather
than a Meiji Emperor type the ching
dynasty was stuck with the anti reformer
sushi tae-ho for this reason alone the
Empress Dowager is vilified today in
China we don't even have to get into the
other reasons the Japanese watched and
waited they of course we're cognizant of
the treaties of Nanjing and tin Jean
they knew how the foreigners had sacked
Beijing and burned the Summer Palace
they saw all this happening and then of
course in 1868 the Tokugawa Shogun utz
was overthrown and you had the Meiji
Restoration so as a result of embracing
all the useful things the West could
offer in terms of Technology industrial
production organizing the military and
how to do battle the Japanese by 1880
posed the greatest potential threat to
China and in addition to all this the
Japanese also kept their eyes and ears
open and received a quick
seat-of-the-pants education in the ways
of western-style international diplomacy
so by 1880 Japan is cocked and loaded
and China is still trying to figure out
the whole westernization thing and how
to integrate these foreign ways into
their world in September of 1871 eight
months after the creation of this new
country in Europe called the German
Empire Japan and China signed a
western-style Treaty of equality and
reciprocity China essentially recognizes
Japan as a sovereign nation and no
longer puts on any airs that Japan is a
vassal state both sides promised to come
to each other's aid if either one is
attacked by another third party but this
is early in the 1870s and all this
supposed goodwill dies pretty fast so
after the ink dries on this treaty Japan
goes and claims Leo Chu and Korea the
Leo chill Islands are an hour cappella
go sura halfway between Japan and Taiwan
these are better known to those that are
in the know as the real cool Islands now
these islands had always paid tribute to
China and at times there was actual
Chinese administration there well not
anymore there was a lot of grumbling in
Beijing about this Japan took advantage
of China who at the time was all tied up
in Xin Jeong and with Russia so they so
they can't do anything about it and in
1879 Japan makes Okinawa Prefecture
Okinawa is one of the islands of this
chain as for Korea Japan was anxious to
make sure the Russians didn't have any
ideas to possibly use Korea as a pathway
into Manchuria the Big Bear to the North
around the 1860s 1870s was becoming
increasingly aggressive about in the
Asian part of the country as we know
later Japan has its own designs on
Manchuria so they had to make sure the
Russians didn't do anything to preempt
their plans so in 1875 the Japanese
provoked an incident on the Han River in
Seoul and the upshot is the Treaty of
Kang wah in 1876 which gives Japan
certain commercial privileges in Korea
and declared Korea an independent and
sovereign state who didn't have to pay
any more tribute to the Ching Emperor so
that was a nice little kick in the teeth
to China in 1879 the Emperor puts the
John in charge of this whole matter of
Japan and what was going on in Korea in
December 1884 Japan back Saku in Korea
Lee Hong Jang sends troops in Japan
sends Ito hit a boomy to Tianjin to
negotiate he and Lee Hong Jang find a
way to throw cold water on this to calm
things down in 1885 by the way Lee Hong
Kong's personal representative in Korea
at this time is none other than un shirk
I who later becomes China's second
president after the passing of Sun
yat-sen but that's way way in the future
he plays a major role in the final death
throes of the ching dynasty 1911 1912 so
anyway back in korea china then attempts
to encourage multinational imperialism
in korea to counter everything japan was
doing over there lee Hong Jang figured
better to have all the imperialist
powers competing in Korea than to just
leave everything to Japan Japan was far
away but Korea was right on the border
with Manchuria in the spring of 1894
domestic disturbance in Korea the
tomahawk rebellion led to the government
inviting chained military forces into
Korea to help put this revolt down this
particular revolt in Korea was very
similar to the Taiping rebellion its
nature but the Japanese said whoa hold
on a second if you're sending troops and
so am I so the Japanese diet votes to
send a reciprocal force to Korea to deal
with this matter and of course there's
no way to avoid the inevitable Japan had
their eyes on Korea for a long time and
now is the time to strike they doubted
China's military as big as it looked so
there was a confrontation in the
Japanese forces took control of the
Imperial Palace in Seoul on June 8th
1894 and they installed the Japanese
puppet government there the Chinese
didn't accept this but the troops
they're led by your insurer KY were
outnumbered and outmaneuvered by the
Japanese so they head back to China to
regroup now the stage is set for the
next huge debacle in China's sad 19th
century history now the Japanese Navy
modeled after the British Navy
preeminence in the world was going to
face off against the formidable Bayon
Navy the jewel in the
of China's naval forces the chain rulers
sort of looked at this as a regional
matter that should have been handled by
Lee Hong Kong's forces based around
their to the Japanese this was a
national matter between Japan and China
but China's leaders at the time and were
sort of preoccupied with Central Asia
and the efforts of adults Hong Kong over
there so Lee Hong Kong's on quay army
and beyond Navy sort of got left in the
lurch so to speak in july japan cents
their entire joint naval fleet towards
korea to deal with the inevitable in the
same month japanese seize the emperor
he's forced to basically set up this pro
japanese government sort of like a proto
manchu quo in september 1894 after no
success anywhere lee's army was routed
at pyongyang and then on the 17th of
that month the chinese bay young navy
was annihilated
this was a date my friend that fo-sho
will live in infamy in the annals of
chinese history there the chinese navy
went down hard at the mouth of the Yalu
River after that the Japanese perhaps
heady from such easy victories they push
into Manchuria MacArthur wasn't the
first one to cross the Yalu River into
China and modern times between October
1894 in February 1895 the Japanese took
Manchuria the Liao Tong Peninsula where
Dali and is located as well as Port
Arthur known as Lucian Co the last port
seized was in way highway in Shandong in
March the pescadores Islands near Taiwan
were invaded and seized the Qin garrison
that backed up Taiwan was based in the
pescadores so this effectively lost
Taiwan to the Japanese later on in the
dreaded bhagwanti oh yeah or the Treaty
of Shimonoseki Prince Kong long out of
favor he comes back and he gets the
dirty job to go negotiate with the
Japanese and find a way to extract China
from this terribly embarrassing debacle
and what we end up with as I said is the
Treaty of Shimonoseki shimano sekiz
located right at the very tip of Honshu
and Yamaguchi Prefecture there on April
17th 1895 China signed their face away
to
they're upstart rival going all the way
back to the Han Dynasty it was a
terribly humiliating and degrading
treaty to a government that had already
taken quite a beating from the British
the French and from internal forces now
it was Japan's turned a pile on top
indeed it was bad enough that China had
suffered these defeats to the British
and the French
these were Western people from lands far
away it was easy to explain it all off
and say well these Western nations their
economic and industrial development took
a different path than China and while it
made the pain no less severe at least
China could say wow it was different
these guys developed quicker and taught
us a lesson but one day you know but
with Japan it was totally different
historically China had always been the
Big Brother in this relationship many
aspects of Japanese culture that were
part of the very essence of being
Japanese a lot of this initially came
from China so all these years later with
Japan so savagely and suddenly defeating
China this was very very hard to take
when li hung-chang was in japan
negotiating this treaty he narrowly
missed death in an assassination attempt
from some japanese extremists so thanks
to that loss of face Japan had to tone
down their demands but still if you were
a great nation with a history thousands
of years old admired and respected
around the world for your achievements
inventions Empire and culture and you
have to go sign your name to the
following provisions what would you be
thinking first of all Korea was declared
an independent nation but in actuality
it was a puppet state of Japan and then
15 years later Japan's simply annexed
Korea second Taiwan was lost to Japan
and stayed part of Japan until 1945
that's why when you visit Japan you'll
see many old folks born in the 20s and
30s were still living they can speak
Japanese Taiwan had just become a
province in its own right in 1885 until
then it had always simply been another
Prefecture of Fujian province so ten
years after Taiwan becomes a province it
falls into Japanese hands China had to
pay a crippling indemnity to Japan of
200 million taels an unheard-of amount
China certainly didn't have this kind of
coin sitting around what we'll see is
the Ching government had to go into hock
to European bankers who financed this
indemnity and they had to pay this
indemnity over seven years and then the
one thing denied to Western businessmen
up till now Japan was allowed to set up
factories in the interior of China the
existing treaty said any factories had
to be near or at a treaty port now Japan
could plunge right into the heart and
soul of China to the Nady areas far from
the coast they started off in Chongqing
hangzhou sue Jo and Shah sure in Hull
Bay and then believe me once Japan
started setting up factories all over
the interior of China the foreign powers
followed suit and to hell with what
China thought about that once the Treaty
of Shimonoseki was signed and the
international community knew how weak
China truly was the age of economic
imperialism took off on afterburner in
addition to Taiwan China also had to
give up the pescadores and the eastern
part of the liao Tony Peninsula so that
was the sino-japanese war so much for
all the time and money spent on the self
strengthening movement up till now
starting with the First Opium War China
had sort of been shocked little by
little but now if they're going down in
such ignoble defeat to Japan it was like
someone head-butted China and woke the
government up to the necessity to
finally take measures to strengthen the
country for real at least we'll see the
start of a constitutional movement
sadly the news spread amongst the
Chinese populace that funds earmarked to
upgrade the bay yong fleet and supply
all the vessels with ammo and provisions
during the sino-japanese war were
diverted instead to the building of
sushis little pleasure palace the eco
urine rather than the real boats these
funds were used in part to build sushis
famous marble boat the infamous sure fog
in total about 36 million taels or 50
million dollars was diverted so when it
comes time to face off against the
Japanese in 1894 there were plenty of
weapons but not enough ammo and then
as the story goes many of the shells
used by the Bayon fleet against the
Japanese Navy were filled with sand
instead of gunpowder how's that for
irony the Hongkong never lived this down
because he was in cahoots with the
Empress Dowager about this and has not
been judged kindly by historians who
excoriated him for his complicity in
this whole sidebar - the gist
sino-japanese war now this treaty also
had a bad smell to it from the Russian
perspective to having the Japanese and
Manchuria was not what the Russians
wanted so they team up at the French and
Germans to lean on Tokyo and the
Japanese back down and they get out of
Manchuria but they pocket an extra fifty
million taels for the trouble Germany
which was still called Prussia in those
days had started poking their nose
around China since the 1860s they set
their sights on Jojo just outside of
Qingdao in Shandong in 1897 Germany uses
a violent incident involving German
priests to force China to sign a 99-year
lease which effectively gave Qingdao to
Germany and so Shandong Province became
a German sphere of influence and we'll
see in 1903 some German settlers
emigrate to Qingdao and set up a bear
factory which today sells over three
billion dollars a year of Qingdao Picchu
or Tsing Tao bear as it's also known as
so all the animals come to feed at the
trough now Russia saddles up and helps
themselves to Port Arthur or Lucien as
well as the port city of Dalian and in
no time at all they start colonizing the
place and parts today still have that
pre Soviet Russian look and feel to it
Great Britain ceases way highway and
demands the same deal there that the
Russians got with Dalian and on top of
that the British needed more elbow room
in Hong Kong so they signed a 99-year
lease with China for the new territories
that was the vast expanse of land
between Kowloon and the border of
Guangdong this lease of the New
Territories in Hong Kong was to run out
on July 1st 1997 of course when this
time rolled around China had staged the
comeback of the century so they took all
Hong Kong rather than just the least New
Territories
fortunately for posterity my countrymen
sort of didn't look as bad the United
States had its hands full in the
Philippines so they didn't participate
in the early rush to carve out spheres
of influence in China so China was sort
of carved up Russians fair was in
Manchuria Germany had the Shandong
Peninsula the Yangtze River Valley was
predominantly anglo-french Fujian and
across the Strait and Taiwan was Japan's
sphere of influence and in southeast
China near the Vietnam border the French
held sway and part of all these
behind-closed-doors agreements with all
these foreign powers came the mineral
rights to mine in these regions railroad
construction and whatever else that was
open to plunder so bad was all the
grabbing that was going on it was fair
that China might ultimately devolve into
another Africa partitioned up into all
these foreign controlled territories
believe it or not the railroads were not
very popular even within the leadership
sungkoo Alphonse said of the railroads
being built by the foreigners that they
disrupted Fung Shui disturb the spirits
of the ancestors transported too many
foreigners around and put untold numbers
of coolies and cart drivers out of
business and so we're going to end our
tale of woe right here in the afterglow
of the Treaty of Shimonoseki of April
1895 the Ching dynasty is 17 more years
to go yet but as we can see it's been
one downhill battle since the late
seventeen hundreds and now it's come to
this there wasn't a single instance when
China ever has the upper hand with the
foreign powers if everything was like a
game of poker China never had better
than a pair of twos they were hopelessly
in debt to the Western banks who
financed the sino-japanese war indemnity
as well as all the railroad construction
ships and infrastructure projects anti
Manchu anti Qing Dynasty elements in
China were having a field day pointing
fingers of the government for their
weaknesses and failures to stand up to
the foreigners now the seeds of
nationalism were starting to sprout
there's nothing like a good humiliation
or perceived insult from a foreign power
to feed the flames of nationalism
amongst the people
guys like Li Hongzhang and son Guan were
later vilified for what they gave away
to the Western powers
Nihon Chiang and his frustration was
quoted once replying to the Japanese
Prime Minister Ito Hirobumi in 1884 when
asked why Japan succeeded in China
failed he said affairs in my country
have been so confined by tradition that
I could not accomplish what I desired I
am ashamed of having excessive wishes
and lacking power to fulfill them this
whole era is still resonating loud and
clear today so China's leaders must
never at any cost be seen in the same
light of giving in to unreasonable
foreign demands or demands that are
perceived to be unreasonable by the
Chunghwa allowed by XI the Chinese
people so when you see some of the
strong statements coming out of Beijing
these days in the 21st century the
ghosts of the 1890s are all over the
place so next week we'll pick up in 1898
when the Guangxu Emperor remember him he
was four years old when he became
emperor in 1875 well now he's reached
his majority and he's going to try and
assert himself but his aunt the Empress
Dowager is going to put the kibosh on
all that but that's for next time for
now this is your host Laszlo Montgomery
once again thanking you for downloading
this episode of the China history
podcast it's been a cold gray and
drizzly week for us here in Claremont
California I definitely picked the wrong
week to pour a new driveway still wet
after seven days but we have a solid
week of 80s and 90s and nothing but Sun
starting tomorrow so I'm sure I'll be
able to enjoy that inaugural drive on to
my new improved driveway soon take care
everyone thanks for listening and we'll
see you next week I hope for another
exciting edition of the China history
podcast